docs/source/index.rst, before:

Welcome to QMAP's documentation!
================================

QMAP is a tool for quantum circuit compilation developed as part of the *Munich Quantum Toolkit* (*MQT*) [#]_ by the `Chair for Design Automation <https://www.cda.cit.tum.de/>`_ at the `Technical University of Munich <https://www.tum.de>`_. It builds upon `our quantum functionality representation (QFR) <https://github.com/cda-tum/qfr>`_.

We recommend you to start with the :doc:`installation instructions <Installation>`.
Then proceed to the :doc:`mapping page <Mapping>` or the :doc:`synthesis/optimization page <Synthesis>` and read the :doc:`reference documentation <library/Library>`.
If you are interested in the theory behind QMAP, have a look at the publications in the :doc:`publication list <Publications>`.

We appreciate any feedback and contributions to the project. If you want to contribute, you can find more information in the :doc:`Contribution <Contributing>` guide. If you are having trouble with the installation or the usage of QCEC, please let us know at our :doc:`Support <Support>` page or by reaching out to us at `quantum.cda@xcit.tum.de <mailto:quantum.cda@xcit.tum.de>`_.

----

.. toctree::
    :hidden:

    self

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: User Guide
    :glob:

    Installation
    Mapping
    Synthesis
    Publications

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Developers
    :glob:

    Contributing
    DevelopmentGuide
    Support

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 6
    :caption: API Reference
    :glob:

    library/Library

----

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#] The Munich Quantum Toolkit was formerly known under the acronym *JKQ* :cite:labelpar:`wille2020JKQtools` and developed by the `Institute for Integrated Circuits <https://iic.jku.at/eda/>`_ at the `Johannes Kepler University Linz <https://jku.at>`_.

Commit message:

📝 Add QMAP overview paper (#237)
Signed-off-by: Lukas Burgholzer <lukas.burgholzer@jku.at>

## Description

This PR adds our latest (invited) overview paper to the documentation
and the readme.

## Checklist:

<!---
This checklist serves as a reminder of a couple of things that ensure
your pull request will be merged swiftly.
-->

- [x] The pull request only contains commits that are related to it.
- [x] I have added appropriate tests and documentation.
- [x] I have made sure that all CI jobs on GitHub pass.
- [x] The pull request introduces no new warnings and follows the
project's style guidelines.

Signed-off-by: Lukas Burgholzer <lukas.burgholzer@jku.at>

docs/source/index.rst, after:

Welcome to QMAP's documentation!
================================

QMAP is a tool for quantum circuit compilation developed as part of the *Munich Quantum Toolkit* (*MQT*) [#]_ by the `Chair for Design Automation <https://www.cda.cit.tum.de/>`_ at the `Technical University of Munich <https://www.tum.de>`_. It builds upon `our quantum functionality representation (QFR) <https://github.com/cda-tum/qfr>`_.

We recommend you to start with the :doc:`installation instructions <Installation>` or by reading our overview paper :cite:labelpar:`wille2023qmap`.
Then proceed to the :doc:`mapping page <Mapping>` or the :doc:`synthesis/optimization page <Synthesis>` and read the :doc:`reference documentation <library/Library>`.
If you are interested in the theory behind QMAP, have a look at the publications in the :doc:`publication list <Publications>`.

We appreciate any feedback and contributions to the project. If you want to contribute, you can find more information in the :doc:`Contribution <Contributing>` guide. If you are having trouble with the installation or the usage of QCEC, please let us know at our :doc:`Support <Support>` page or by reaching out to us at `quantum.cda@xcit.tum.de <mailto:quantum.cda@xcit.tum.de>`_.

----

.. toctree::
    :hidden:

    self

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: User Guide
    :glob:

    Installation
    Mapping
    Synthesis
    Publications

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Developers
    :glob:

    Contributing
    DevelopmentGuide
    Support

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 6
    :caption: API Reference
    :glob:

    library/Library

----

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#] The Munich Quantum Toolkit was formerly known under the acronym *JKQ* :cite:labelpar:`wille2020JKQtools` and developed by the `Institute for Integrated Circuits <https://iic.jku.at/eda/>`_ at the `Johannes Kepler University Linz <https://jku.at>`_.
