docs/source/Publications.rst, before:

Publications
============

*QMAP* is academic software. Thus, many of its built-in algorithms have been published as scientific papers.

If you use *QMAP* in your work, we would appreciate if you cited :cite:labelpar:`zulehnerEfficientMethodologyMapping2019` when using the heuristic mapper, :cite:labelpar:`willeMappingQuantumCircuits2019` when using the exact mapper, and :cite:labelpar:`schneider2023satEncodingOptimalClifford` when using the Clifford circuit synthesis approach.
Furthermore, if you use any of the particular algorithms such as

- the heuristic mapping scheme using teleportation :cite:labelpar:`hillmichExlpoitingQuantumTeleportation2021`
- the search space limitation techniques of the exact mapper (some of which are enabled per default) :cite:labelpar:`burgholzer2022limitingSearchSpace`
- the method for finding (near-)optimal subarchitectures :cite:labelpar:`peham2022OptimalSubarchitectures`

please consider citing their respective papers as well. A full list of related papers is given below.

.. bibliography::

Commit message:

📝 add QMAP overview paper
Signed-off-by: Lukas Burgholzer <lukas.burgholzer@jku.at>

docs/source/Publications.rst, after:

Publications
============

*QMAP* is academic software. Thus, many of its built-in algorithms have been published as scientific papers.
See :cite:labelpar:`wille2023qmap` for a general overview of *QMAP* and its features.

If you use *QMAP* in your work, we would appreciate if you cited :cite:labelpar:`zulehnerEfficientMethodologyMapping2019` when using the heuristic mapper, :cite:labelpar:`willeMappingQuantumCircuits2019` when using the exact mapper, and :cite:labelpar:`schneider2023satEncodingOptimalClifford` when using the Clifford circuit synthesis approach.
Furthermore, if you use any of the particular algorithms such as

- the heuristic mapping scheme using teleportation :cite:labelpar:`hillmichExlpoitingQuantumTeleportation2021`
- the search space limitation techniques of the exact mapper (some of which are enabled per default) :cite:labelpar:`burgholzer2022limitingSearchSpace`
- the method for finding (near-)optimal subarchitectures :cite:labelpar:`peham2022OptimalSubarchitectures`

please consider citing their respective papers as well. A full list of related papers is given below.

.. bibliography::
