docs/index.md, before:

# MQT QMAP - A Tool for Mapping Quantum Circuits onto various Hardware Technologies

```{raw} latex
\begin{abstract}
```

MQT QMAP is an open-source C++17 and Python library for mapping quantum circuits onto various hardware technologies developed as part of the _{doc}`Munich Quantum Toolkit (MQT) <mqt:index>`_ [^1].

This documentation provides a comprehensive guide to the MQT QMAP library, including {doc}`installation instructions <installation>`, demo notebooks, and detailed {doc}`API documentation <api/mqt/qmap/index>`.
The source code of MQT QMAP is publicly available on GitHub at [munich-quantum-toolkit/qmap](https://github.com/munich-quantum-toolkit/qmap), while pre-built binaries are available via [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/mqt.qmap/) for all major operating systems and all modern Python versions.
MQT QMAP is fully compatible with Qiskit 1.0 and above.

We recommend you to start with the {doc}`installation instructions <installation>` or by reading our overview paper {cite:p}`wille2023qmap`.
Then proceed to the {doc}`mapping page <mapping>`, the {doc}`synthesis/optimization page <synthesis>`, or the {doc}`neutral atom state preparation page <na_state_prep>`, and read the {doc}`reference documentation <api/mqt/qmap/index>`.
If you are interested in the theory behind QMAP, have a look at the publications in the {doc}`publication list <references>`.

We appreciate any feedback and contributions to the project. If you want to contribute, you can find more information in the {doc}`Contribution <contributing>` guide.
If you are having trouble with the installation or the usage of QMAP, please let us know at our {doc}`Support <support>` page or by reaching out to us at [quantum.cda@xcit.tum.de](mailto:quantum.cda@xcit.tum.de).

[^1]:
    The _[Munich Quantum Toolkit (MQT)](https://mqt.readthedocs.io)_ is a collection of software tools for quantum computing developed by the [Chair for Design Automation](https://www.cda.cit.tum.de/) at the [Technical University of Munich](https://www.tum.de/) as well as the [Munich Quantum Software Company (MQSC)](https://munichquantum.software).
    Among others, it is part of the [Munich Quantum Software Stack (MQSS)](https://www.munich-quantum-valley.de/research/research-areas/mqss) ecosystem, which is being developed as part of the [Munich Quantum Valley (MQV)](https://www.munich-quantum-valley.de) initiative.

````{only} latex
```{note}
A live version of this document is available at [mqt.readthedocs.io/projects/qmap](https://mqt.readthedocs.io/projects/qmap).
```
````

```{raw} latex
\end{abstract}

\sphinxtableofcontents
```

```{toctree}
:hidden:

self
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:caption: User Guide

installation
mapping
synthesis
na_state_prep
references
CHANGELOG
UPGRADING
```

````{only} not latex
```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:titlesonly:
:caption: Developers
:glob:

contributing
support
development_guide
```
````

```{toctree}
:hidden:
:maxdepth: 6
:caption: API Reference

api/mqt/qmap/index
```

Commit message:

✨ New Zoned Neutral Atom Compiler (#624)
## Description

This rather big PR adds a new compiler for zoned
neutral atom architectures. The key benefit is its modular structure.
This should ease the further development of the compiler as only
components of the compiler must be touched.

This implementation in C++ is based on its previous implementation in
Python from [here](https://github.com/UCLA-VAST/ZAC) and its
corresponding article [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11784).

## Checklist:

<!---
This checklist serves as a reminder of a couple of things that ensure
your pull request will be merged swiftly.
-->

- [x] The pull request only contains commits that are related to it.
- [x] I have added appropriate tests and documentation.
- [x] I have made sure that all CI jobs on GitHub pass.
- [x] The pull request introduces no new warnings and follows the
project's style guidelines.

---------

Signed-off-by: Yannick Stade <100073938+ystade@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Lukas Burgholzer <burgholzer@me.com>

docs/index.md, after:

# MQT QMAP - A Tool for Mapping Quantum Circuits onto various Hardware Technologies

```{raw} latex
\begin{abstract}
```

MQT QMAP is an open-source C++17 and Python library for mapping quantum circuits onto various hardware technologies developed as part of the _{doc}`Munich Quantum Toolkit (MQT) <mqt:index>`_ [^1].

This documentation provides a comprehensive guide to the MQT QMAP library, including {doc}`installation instructions <installation>`, demo notebooks, and detailed {doc}`API documentation <api/mqt/qmap/index>`.
The source code of MQT QMAP is publicly available on GitHub at [munich-quantum-toolkit/qmap](https://github.com/munich-quantum-toolkit/qmap), while pre-built binaries are available via [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/mqt.qmap/) for all major operating systems and all modern Python versions.
MQT QMAP is fully compatible with Qiskit 1.0 and above.

We recommend you to start with the {doc}`installation instructions <installation>` or by reading our overview paper {cite:p}`wille2023qmap`.
Then proceed to the {doc}`mapping page <mapping>`, the {doc}`synthesis/optimization page <synthesis>`, the {doc}`neutral atom state preparation page <na_state_prep>`, or the {doc}`zoned neutral atom compiler <na_zoned_compiler>`, and read the {doc}`reference documentation <api/mqt/qmap/index>`.
If you are interested in the theory behind QMAP, have a look at the publications in the {doc}`publication list <references>`.

We appreciate any feedback and contributions to the project. If you want to contribute, you can find more information in the {doc}`Contribution <contributing>` guide.
If you are having trouble with the installation or the usage of QMAP, please let us know at our {doc}`Support <support>` page or by reaching out to us at [quantum.cda@xcit.tum.de](mailto:quantum.cda@xcit.tum.de).

[^1]:
    The _[Munich Quantum Toolkit (MQT)](https://mqt.readthedocs.io)_ is a collection of software tools for quantum computing developed by the [Chair for Design Automation](https://www.cda.cit.tum.de/) at the [Technical University of Munich](https://www.tum.de/) as well as the [Munich Quantum Software Company (MQSC)](https://munichquantum.software).
    Among others, it is part of the [Munich Quantum Software Stack (MQSS)](https://www.munich-quantum-valley.de/research/research-areas/mqss) ecosystem, which is being developed as part of the [Munich Quantum Valley (MQV)](https://www.munich-quantum-valley.de) initiative.

````{only} latex
```{note}
A live version of this document is available at [mqt.readthedocs.io/projects/qmap](https://mqt.readthedocs.io/projects/qmap).
```
````

```{raw} latex
\end{abstract}

\sphinxtableofcontents
```

```{toctree}
:hidden:

self
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:caption: User Guide

installation
mapping
synthesis
na_state_prep
na_zoned_compiler
references
CHANGELOG
UPGRADING
```

````{only} not latex
```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:titlesonly:
:caption: Developers
:glob:

contributing
support
development_guide
```
````

```{toctree}
:hidden:
:maxdepth: 6
:caption: API Reference

api/mqt/qmap/index
```
